Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
So, in this lecture, we're talking about back-end languages,
and specifically, Ruby, PHP, and Python.
If you want to learn one of those three, what is the best way of going about it?
Now, in back-end you're pretty lucky, because there's just resources everywhere.
You can use quite literally every format of resource available.
There are YouTube tutorials, there are books, there are online tutorials,
there are online courses, there are bootcamps both online and in person,
and there are full blown college classes out there.
You really don't have a ton of bad options for this, just understand
that this is generally a longer process than learning front-end development.
All right, so let's just tackle these one at a time.
So if you wanted to learn Ruby, here is an example of how you could do it.
First thing I would say is try to get familiar with the syntax and how it works.
It's a little bit different if you know a little bit of like PHP or Python,
it just operates slightly differently with gems, and it runs in its own little environment.
I would say start with Codecademy, because Codecademy will introduce you quickly
and deal with all that extra setup stuff for you, so you don't have to.
Past that, there are a lot of ways that you could go about this.
I suggest at this point, make sure that you get familiar with the online documentation
and the Ruby communities, because you're
constantly going to have to be referring back to it,
because it's a language that's constantly being updated.
The next thing I'd suggest is trying something like TryRuby,
that's an actual system you can use that tries to give you
a holistic view of Ruby, and gives you practice problems.
There's another one called RubyMonk, which is pretty decent.
Once you feel like you have a decent understanding of Ruby,
you can make basic things, maybe you don't know everything,
then I'd say move into learning how to solve problems,
and really testing your understanding.
The way I would go about doing that is through something like CodeWars.
CodeWars is an app online that's for Ruby, and you play it like a game,
and gamifying it is actually a really cool way of learning this stuff,
and really challenging your understanding.
At this point, it kind of depends how you're feeling about it,
there are a lot of online courses that will take you farther.
OneMonth has a great Ruby course, and it's done kind of in a 30-day setup,
TreeHouse has a pretty good setup as well.
Whatever you do, just try to learn until you get to the point
where you're pretty comfortable with Ruby and the way you set it up,
put in on web servers, and launch actual sites.
The next thing you would need to do is jump head first into Rails.
Rails is that framework that you almost always hear with Ruby,
you rarely hear Ruby, you hear Ruby on Rails.
Well, guess what? Ruby without Rails is not very good.
In all likelihood, if you get a job with Ruby, you're going to have to know Rails,
so just think of this as phase two, learn some Rails.
Now, if you want to learn Python, well,
Python has a lot of options available to it as well.
My favorite option is actually just use the Google course.
Google has an online course for learning Python, it's really well done.
Codecademy is also great for just beginning with Python,
although I think it's kind of undersimplified.
Other options, Coursera.
If you're not familiar with Coursera, it's college courses put online,
and you take them in the same format as a college course.
Since Python is the most popular language taught in universities,
there's a lot of courses on it, and there are really good ones on there.
And then, like Ruby, you'd probably need to learn some form of a framework
after you take one of those, and it really depends on what you're trying to do.
If you're trying to do web development, I'd suggest learning Django,
because that's probably the most commonly used framework for Python,
but if you want to do something like data science,
or work on graphic visualizations, there's different ones out there.
If you're learning Python for a specific reason, like, say, web scraping,
there's a great framework for Python called Scrapy.
You just need to figure out "Why am I doing this?"
and then look for an appropriate framework.
The last one is PHP, and PHP, again, huge community, it's all pretty much free,
so there's a lot of different ways you can go out and learn it.
One thing I will point out is make sure that you're learning the most recent PHP,
because they've been making a lot of changes in the last two rounds.
Now, one thing to keep in mind with PHP is actually that
you need to understand basic HTML and CSS.
One of the biggest advantages of PHP is that
you can insert it directly into the HTML page,
so if you don't actually know how to manipulate those two very basic languages,
you're actually leaving a lot on the table.
As far as getting started, Codecademy again, great option,
Udemy actually has a lot of good courses on PHP.
Past that, I'd actually suggest using books, O'Reilly has a really good book on PHP,
because it focuses on building applications
first, and you get to build lots of applications
that are actually funny and somewhat memorable.
After that, I would strongly suggest learning how to use PHP
in an object oriented way, OOP, it gives me nightmares to this day,
but I strongly suggest you understand how to use that, because again,
that's going to give you the best control of PHP.
Doing PHP procedurally is ok if you want to be a hacker,
but if you actually want to build things that people will pay you for,
then I would strongly suggest learning how to use that, it's called a paradigm.
All right, so that pretty much sums up those three.
I'm not going to cover Java, because - just Google it,
Java is just not really something I'm going to endorse at this moment,
the other ones are relatively simple, just keep in mind how they work.
Ruby is for the web, so focus on, make sure that you understand Rails.
Python you can learn on Coursera, in college courses,
you can learn it online through Google's course,
and then PHP is free and it's everywhere, and surprisingly
the books available for learning it are pretty good.
All right guys, that wraps up the back-end section of choosing your path.
See you in the next lecture!